This is the README for "libjvs".

Copyright: (c) 2013-2026 Jacco van Schaik (jacco@jaccovanschaik.net)

Introduction
------------

Libjvs is a library of utilities in the C programming language. It is
distributed under the MIT license.

Instructions for use is (or should be) contained in the various .h
files. An overview of which source file contains what is provided below.

There are a few "ground rules" regarding use of the various structs and
functions contained herein:

* (Almost) all functions use a lower-case prefix to show which module
  they come from, followed by the rest of the name in camel-case
  (e.g. bufCreate() in buffer.c, hashAdd() in hash.c). Static functions
  (i.e. internal to the module) have the same prefix, but the rest of
  the name is underscore-separated lower case.
* There are a few functions that are meant to be called through a macro
  instead of directly by the user. These have a leading underscore.
* Abstract types (structs and enums) are typedef'ed so they can be
  referenced just by their name.
* If the definition of a struct is given in the .h file, it can be
  automatically allocated on the stack, *provided* that it is zeroed
  before use. Also be sure to ..Clear() the struct before the end of the
  scope, or you might end up with a memory leak.
* Many modules come with test code, in an "_test.c" source file. These
  #include the original source code so they can test all functions there,
  even, if necessary, static ones. The Makefile has a "test" target to run all
  tests. This target is also a prerequisite for the "install" target, so that
  the library will only be installed when all tests run without errors.
* I like variable argument lists. In some cases I use them to implement
  a prinf-like interface, in which case I try to use GCC's __attribute__
  syntax to check the format string against the arguments. In other
  cases I use them to be able to pass in an arbitrary number of
  arguments, in which case the end is usually marked using the END macro
  (defined in defs.h).
* There is a vector/matrix module that is largely generated by the
  make_vector.sh script. This creates functions to handle vectors from size 2
  up to 4, and all matrices with widths and heights of 2 up to 4. There is
  also an experimental vector_generics.h include file that defines a number of
  generic functions for these types.
* Some "standard" functions:
  xCreate()     Create a new, initialized <x> and return a pointer to it.
  xInit()       Initialize an <x>. May be necessary if you've allocated
                an <x> on the stack and haven't set it to all zeroes, or
                if you've allocated it using malloc(). Usually simply
                sets the struct to all zeroes. Note: this does *not*
                discard its contents, because it may have uninitialized
                pointers that we don't want to free().
  xClear()      Clear out the contents of an <x>. After this you should
                be able to free() the <x> without getting a memory leak.
                The <x> must have been initialized.
  xDestroy()    Clear *and* free() an <x>.

Overview
--------

astring.c, astring.h
    Handle ASCII strings.

bitmask.c, bitmask.h
    Handles bitmasks of unlimited size.

buffer.c, buffer.h
    Provides growing byte buffers.

debug.c, debug.h
    Functions to assist in debugging.

defs.h
    Some useful definitions.

dis.h, dis.h
    Network dispatcher.

hash.c, hash.h
    Provides hash tables.

hashlist.c, hashlist.h
    A hash table that can also be traversed sequentially. Combines the best
    bits of lists and hash tables.

latlon.c, latlon.h
    Parser for latitude/longitude strings.

list.c, list.h
    Provides doubly-linked lists.

log.c, log.h
    Provides logging functions.

mdf.c, mdf.h
    Minimal Data Format parser.

ml.c, ml.h
    Multi-list. Lists where items can be in multiple lists at the same 
    time. However, a consequence is that it can't have the same level of 
    checks that list.[ch] has.

net.c, net.h
    Provides general networking utilities.

ns.c, ns.h
    Network Server.

options.c, options.h
    Option parser.

pa.c, pa.h
    Pointer arrays.

path.c, path.h
    Find files in paths.

sc.c, sc.h
    A "string carousel", providing a round-robin buffer of statically
    allocated strings.

tables.c, tables.h
    Nicely format tables of text.

tcp.c, tcp.h
    Provides TCP networking utilities.

timespec.c, timespec.h
    Calculations with "struct timespec" variables.

timeval.c, timeval.h
    Calculations with "struct timeval" variables.

tree.c, tree.h
    Store data in a tree structure. Works much like hash.[ch] from a 
    user perspective, but uses much less memory.

udp.c, udp.h
    Provides UDP networking utilities.

units.h
    Provides conversion from/to SI units.

utils.c, utils.h
    General utilities.

vector.c, vector.h
    Handle vectors and matrices with sizes 2 up to 4. Source code generated by
    the make_vector.sh script.

wstring.c, wstring.h
    Handle wide-character (wchar_t) strings.
